New design overahauling core gameplay. Create a new worktree for all new changes which you are allowed to make commits in.

Current system is 5 cards drawn at random from deck into the input/entrance zones, dropping down into 6 zones, player picks up and creates stacks like in classic solitaires such as canfield and klondlike, then scoring occurs that scores each row, then each column. 

Pivoting to a Poker Solitaire/Poker Patience/Poker Squares design instead. Instead of 5-6 zones cards drop into, have a 5x5 zone grid. Instead of cards dropping down, player manually pick up card from entrance zone and puts it inside one of the 25 empty spaces. Immediately score a filled in row or col upon its completion according to the existing poker rules. 5 long diagonals count. Still using the system where poker hands score points, and each effect trigger adds +1 to mult by default. For every 25/50 (tunable for testing) cards in deck at game start, a new 5x5 grid is unlocked. Since entrance zone is 5 cards at a time, once you commit to 1 grid, all entrance cards must be placed in that grid before entrance automatically refreshes with 5 new cards, and you can choose grid to place them in again.
For actual game view, each grid gets its own separate 'panel', and player can switch between a zoomed out view showing multiple grids next to each other separated by a buffer, or a focused view on a single grid similar in view to todays current setup. Before player has commited to a grid to place cards in, the entrance card zone follows player view around the top of the grids, aligned, then stays attached to a single grid once card placment has happened. If a grid is completed and there are remaining cards in input, it is freed up for another grid, and the empty slots are refilled with remaining card persisting in its current slot. If deck cannot refill entire entrance card zones, placement should be randomized instead of current going left to right.
Because of potential multiple grids side by side, actual screen for this scene should be wide enough to fit 3 grids at minimum, aligned to center, so picture on wall is very wide. This means the camera is technically viewing only a portion of the total wide screen, and the picture wall transition view should no zoom out to true framze size but instead imagine a screen aspect ratio view. When viewing all grids 
When viewing a grid when thare multiple grids side by side, there should be left and right buttons to go to pan to different grids (view should always be snapped with a grid in the center, no viewing a cutoff grid), or swiping left and right on touchscreen or back buttons with controller. A view of all grids should not show the picture wall and frame, so total size of picture height wise needs to reflect that as well. In other words, picture wall transition logic needs to be able to respect and save where you have currently scrolled to in the picture and treat that as moving camera in real space.
Since scoring now happens while placing cards on row or column being filled in, pressing submit/end button simply triggers whatever hooks are tied to it, then game ends without a scoring round. You can press end anytime even if boards and spaces are not all filled in. Add a todo to have all cards perform some sort of bow animation or jump animation to add extra flair.
By default, once card is placed down on an empty zone, it cannot be moved or have cards stacked on it, those actions would be reserved for potential future effects.
one thing to note is that all rows are matching in cases of multiple grids, and grid positions should match as well. For example, row 1 across all grids should be at the same y level across entire screen. This allows card effects such as move this card 5 spaces to the left, in which case it will end up in the same x y position in the grid to its left, allowing a possible third dimension to coordinates. On top of this, we add a 4th dimension, height, which is a result of stacking cards on top of each other. For the sake of readability, a stacked card on a position causes all rows below it shift down to accomadate it, similar to how current row separation works. These cards based on height can also trigger scoring if 5 cards are aligned in height and complete a 5 card line at that height. This includes stacks of 5 in the same x,y pos. No limit on height for now. Scoring should only trigger when building up, dropping down to intervals of 5 should not retrigger scoring, when scoring stack of 10, score entire stack since our current system supports it. Score labels also need to respect the height layer, which it should currently do be default with current code except for the column scoring. if same row +1 height 5 line scores, a new score label should show at that row with the scored amount, which is current behavior. If same col +1 height 5 line scores, then col score needs a new col score below it to show the offset. Even if it scores nothing, place a 0 as placeholder. A height based score puts the score label below the bottomost card of the stack, should only ever have 1 height based label since all new scores should update that one label, and does mean that score labels can appear in between rows between zones. Also add 2 new score labels at corners for the 2 diagonals, above the top row score and to the right of the rightmost col score label. Diagonals across height, such as +1/+0x +1/+0y +z, update the corner score label closest to heighest height (not lowest to prevent overlap), and uses that corner height score label.
Total coordinates are therefore, 1: which grid, 2: x pos, 3: y pos, 4: height.
Total score should still be included in the HUD as grid score labels update so player never has to count their current score manually.
Removing a card in a height stack causes cards above to drop down.
Removing a card from a 5 line and readding it retriggers scoring event.
Testing will require building up 1 5x5 grid 1 card at a time, up to a completely full 15 height stack in every 25 space, detecting all possible lines of 5 and their scoring. Tests should do it in a bunch of different order, have tests that randomly move cards around as well and retrigger scoring events, removing cards, and fuzzy testing where cards are placed randomly. For sake of testing, cards can be stacked with no concern of rules, purely testing scoring.

As part of design review, consider possible misalignment scenarios and what to do, create a setting to have different grids expand their zones too if 1 grid expands its rows due to increasing height.
Create a test deck of standard 52 card setup if it doesnt exist already to use for testing the new setup

Since core is currently implemented in game.gd game_view.gd and cards in the rules deck, those will get the most focus in overhauling. We can recycle nearly everything in game currently, no removing anything, by updating game state data to record more, 
we can do this since we dont really have many card effects hardcoded to current design, and current design can still be used when allowing a 3rd dimension stacking cards on top of the 2d grid.

changes to game.gd:
no more scoring on submit, scoring is now automatically run after every card move, where a rule card will check for a new 5 line completion containing new card position within that grid.
no more drop down logic via zone or next button pressed
all new necessary arrays in game state data to track grids of zones of cards, and all necessary score trackers

changes to game_view.gd
no more next button since drop down is no longer a thing
ability to pan between and focus on different 5x5 zones, including a zoomed out view of all zones
entrance input cards should follow focused grid until commited to a single grid, in which case it sticks

New cards to create and add to rules deck
A card that says on game start, check cards in deck, and add a 5x5 grid creation card to rules deck per 25 cards in deck.
when 5x5 grid creation Card becomes active, it creates 5x5 zone cards it owns, when inactive, grid of zone cards should be removed and cards it contains should be discarded. Basically follow same logic as zone creation cards.
5 different input/entrance zone cards, same as today. When refreshing after all zone cards empty or current grid is full, should draw from deck in random order so input cards are not always filled in left to right. 1st input card is same column and 1st col in 5x5 grid.
a card that detects new 5 line cards to score when line of 5 cards is created anywhere across the grids.

CardDataIterator needs to be updated to track all grids. Order is still input cards, left to right, leftmost first grid, left slot in first row, going down rows, then repeat with 2nd grid, then when grids are down discard and rules.

remove any old cards in rules deck that are no longer relevant.
Mention if I have missed any high level changes that should be included on top of the ones already mentioned.

  Once design is finalized and implemented create an alternate updated version of all of the md and csv docs in the solatro folders such as "curated effects pre grid.csv" and "random potential effects.csv", including new updated game draft idea at "gam draft.txt" dump now containing more references and ideas at the bottom, and including new csv containing in progress accepted ideas mined from the design ideas generated docs. Interpret game draft update in same manner as previous readings of older game drafts (newer lines are always newer ideas, and older ideas are possibly no longer relevant or updated in a newer line), i assume older game draft dumps are tracked in one of the docs. Note that old potentially overrided ideas in the draft may have become relevant again and can be reused, so it needs another lookover. Update architecture and design docs with updated mechanics based on new grid type layout, I expect a lot of stuff to be possibly defunct. Specifically want new versions of ARCHITECTURE_REVIEW.md DESIGN_DOC.md DESIGN_RECCOMENDATIONS.md DESIGN_REFERENCES.md CARD_CATALOG.csv (catalog now has updated column on whether i've seen it yet or not, which will require resetting since core gameplay is different now), which should be overlooked by a high level high effort agent. Keep as much as you can, remove no longer relevant designs, and append new designs and updated versions. Also make sure all other docs are updated in respect to the changes so nothing refers to old design.

